--- PAGE 1 ---
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
General Conditions of Participation  
 Campaigns and Channels  
organised by ESA on OSIP 
 
 
 
Channels (“General Conditions of Participation”) before entering Ideas (as defined 
below) to Campaigns or Channels organised by ESA on the Open Space Innovation 
Platform (OSIP). 
 
They are released by the European Space Agency, an international 
intergovernmental organisation governed by its Convention, having its headquarters 
at 24 rue du Général Bertrand, CS 30798, 75345 Paris Cedex 7, France (“ESA” or 
“the Agency”). 
 
By entering an Idea to a Campaign or Channel organised by ESA on the OSIP, the 
User of OSIP accepts (such acceptance being a mandatory condition to participate in 
the OSIP Campaign or Channel) these General Conditions of Participation as well as 
any Specific Conditions set forth by ESA for each Campaign or Channel as they may 
be published on OSIP (herein collectively referred to as “Conditions of 
Participation”).  
 
Once so accepted, the Conditions of Participation will be legally binding to the 
Participant, in addition to the General Conditions of Use of the OSIP (as well as any 
conditions referred to therein); the General Conditions of Use of the OSIP will continue 
to apply to the Participant for as long as it remains a User of OSIP. 
 
I. Definitions 
In these General Conditions of Participation, the following words and expressions 
have the following meaning: 
  
“Campaign” 
means a competition launched via OSIP which: 
(i) 
is intended to generate Ideas, with a 
predetermined 
focus 
and 
for 
certain 
expected results and  
(ii) 
is opened within a defined timeframe.  
 
“Campaign or Channel audience” 
means the Users of OSIP and/or the general 
public that is given access to Campaigns and 
Channels by ESA. 
 
“Campaign or Channel Manager (CM)” means the manager of a particular 
Campaign or Channel appointed by ESA to run 
and monitor a Campaign or Channel including the 
evaluation process.  
 
“Channel” 
means a competition launched on OSIP which: 


--- PAGE 2 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
(i) Is intended to collect ideas from participants on 
general issues or on specific topics, but without 
targeting a specific result. 
(ii) Has an open timeframe. 
 
“Conditions of Participation” 
has the meaning set forth in the Preamble. 
 
“EISI” 
stands for “ESA Initial Support for Innovation” and 
means the firm fixed amount awarded by the 
Agency, under an EISI Agreement to a Beneficiary, 
to provide an initial support for a specific Project 
and not as counterpart for a service or a 
deliverable. EISI is awarded in application of 
Resolution on the ESA Initial Support for 
Innovation (ESA/C(2020)6) adopted by ESA 
Council on 18 December 2019 and made public on 
www.esa.int. 
  
(information on EISI:  
https://www.esa.int/Enabling_Support/Preparing_f
or_the_Future/Discovery_and_Preparation/EISI_-
_ESA_Initial_Support_for_Innovation) 
 
“EISI Agreement” 
refers to the agreement between the Agency and 
the Beneficiary which formalises the particular 
terms and conditions applicable between the 
Parties in connection with the award of EISI. The 
EISI Agreement includes, by reference, the EISI 
General Clauses adopted by ESA and made public 
on www.esa.int. 
 
“Evaluation Panel” or “Team of Experts” 
means the team of experts nominated 
by 
ESA 
to 
evaluate 
Ideas 
submitted 
by 
Participants. 
 
“Idea” 
means, in the context of OSIP Campaigns or 
Channels, the expression and description of a 
thought, of a solution, of a process or concept 
containing typically, and as a minimum, a title and 
an explanation. 
 
“Idea Call(s)” 
means calls for ideas on OSIP organised either as 
Campaigns or as Channels. 
 
“Idea Submission” 
The documentation embodying an Idea and output 
of any elaborated Idea submitted by a Participant 
in a Campaign or into a Channel, as it may be 
updated by the Participant until the evaluation 
starts. 
 


--- PAGE 3 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
“Implementation Path(s)” 
means the implementation mechanism(s) which 
may be used by ESA in compliance with the 
applicable ESA rules and regulations, to implement 
activities following the evaluation of Ideas 
submitted via OSIP pursuant to a Campaign or a 
Channel.  
 
“Intellectual Property Rights”  
means any patent, registered design, copyright, 
database right, design right, topography right, 
trade mark, service mark, application to register 
any of the aforementioned rights, trade secret, right 
in unpatented know-how, right of confidence and 
any other intellectual or industrial property right of 
any nature whatsoever in any part of the world. 
 
“OSIP” or “Platform” or “Website” 
means the Open Space Innovation Platform, 
operated by, or for, ESA for the purposes of 
Campaigns and Channels. OSIP is the front end to 
the Discovery element of ESA’s Basic Activities 
and other ESA-wide calls in the form of a website. 
It provides an efficient, streamlined entry point for 
novel 
Ideas 
and 
is 
available 
at 
URL 
https://ideas.esa.int. 
 
“Participants” 
means the Users who have formulated and 
entered an Idea in OSIP. May be “Participant” also: 
(i)  
ESA 
staff 
members 
subject 
to 
their 
compliance with ESA rules and regulations; 
the latter will prevail over the Conditions of 
Participation in case of conflict or ambiguity; 
(ii) 
any personnel of ESA contractors, in 
particular the on-site contractors, provided 
their participation to ESA Campaigns / 
Channels is authorised by their employers 
and the appropriate justification is provided 
to ESA upon request. 
 
“Specific Conditions”  
means the specific conditions of implementation 
applicable to a specific Campaign or Channel. 
 
“Third Party" 
means a natural or legal person other than ESA, 
User and/or Participant. 
 
“Users” (also called “innovators” on the OSIP Platform) 
means 
the 
persons 
which are registered as users of OSIP and which 
have been provided by ESA with an access code. 
They may represent a moral person or attend on 
their own behalf. Users may become “Participants” 
to Campaigns and Channels by submitting Ideas.  


--- PAGE 4 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
II.  Scope 
2.1. Scope of application 
 
This document describes the general conditions for Users of OSIP to participate 
- subject to the exclusion set forth in Article II (2) below - to an OSIP Campaign 
or Channel organised by ESA and, as Participant, to submit Ideas via OSIP. 
 
It describes the typical procedural steps applicable to Campaigns or Channels, 
from the early Idea formulation up to a potential selection of the Idea and 
provides information on potential Implementation Paths.  
 
2.2. Exclusion.  
 
The Conditions of Participation are not designed to be used, and may not be 
used, to deviate from ESA rules and regulations in the latter’s fields of 
application. In case a Campaign or a Channel falls in the area of application of 
specific ESA rules and regulations, then such Campaign or Channel:  
a. is deemed excluded from the scope of application of this OSIP Process 
document; and 
b. may only be launched in accordance with such ESA rules and 
regulations; in this respect, ESA may then issue Specific Conditions to 
ensure compatibility and compliance thereof with the relevant applicable 
ESA rules and regulations. 
III. Timing and Phases 
3.1. Indicative Timing 
 
(1) The Specific Conditions set forth, for each Idea Call, on the OSIP will include 
indicative information on: 
a. the start date and the end date for the Idea Calls; 
b. timeline details for each of the phases of the Campaign e.g. submission 
deadline, end of evaluation phase, end of Campaign.  
 
(2) ESA may change any pre-set schedules as necessary or opportune for ESA 
and shall update the relevant information on OSIP. 
 
3.2. Typical Phases.  
 
(1) The Idea Calls process starts with an idea phase via OSIP. The Idea phase 
shall focus on the formulation and submission of a new idea and its maturation. 
 
(2) The Campaigns will typically include following phases: 
a. the “Idea submission” phase, allowing to Participants to enter new ideas;  
b. the “community discussion & voting” phase, allowing Participants to edit 
an Idea and discuss with the community;  
c. the “evaluation” phase, during which Ideas are evaluated and are 
therefore no longer editable;  


--- PAGE 5 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
d. the “end of Campaign” phase, with all Ideas being processed and either 
channelled to an Implementation Path or archived, and the Campaign 
being closed and archived. 
 
(3) The Channels will typically not include time delimited phases. 
IV. ESA Campaigns and Channels 
4.1. Scope of ESA Campaigns and Channels 
 
ESA may organise and launch Idea Campaigns and Idea Channels on OSIP:  
a. Campaigns targeting certain topics and with a deadline for submission 
of Ideas; 
b. Channels on generic themes for submission of Ideas. 
 
4.2. General and Specific Conditions.  
 
Both Campaigns and Channels may be launched under these General 
Conditions of Participation and under relevant Specific Conditions. In case of 
conflicting terms between these General Conditions of Participation and the 
provisions of such Specific Conditions, the Specific Conditions shall prevail in 
relation to the subject matter. 
 
4.3. Eligibility conditions.  
 
(1) Eligibility criteria. The Specific Conditions shall expressly indicate the 
conditions, additional to the ones set forth in these General Conditions of 
Participation, which must be fulfilled by the Users to be eligible to participate in 
the Campaign or Channel. The Participants may be required by ESA to draft 
and provide a statement of eligibility including confirmation that the eligibility 
conditions are and will be fulfilled during the entire duration of the Campaign or 
Channel. 
 
(2) Exclusion criteria. Subject to other exclusion criteria which may be set forth in 
the Specific Conditions, any Participant may be excluded from the Campaign 
or Channel (and may also be excluded from the further use of OSIP) if any of 
the following events occurs: 
a. the Participant fails to fulfil any of the Conditions of Participations or any 
terms and conditions referred to herein;  
b. the Participant is acting in a manner inconsistent with ESA reputation, 
status and interests; 
c. the Participant falls under any of the following situations: 
i. the Participant has been the subject of a judgement which has 
the force of res judicata for fraud, corruption, involvement in a 
criminal organisation, money laundering or any other illegal 
activity; 
ii. the Participant violated, or is suspected of violating, Intellectual 
Property Rights of a Third Party. 


--- PAGE 6 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
d. the Participant seeks to negate or restrict, through specific labelling or 
otherwise, the use of proprietary information, data and/or of supporting 
documents as authorised by the Conditions of Participation. 
 
4.4. Establishment of evaluation criteria and of the Evaluation Panel 
 
(1) Evaluation criteria and weighting factors. For each Campaign or Channel that 
ESA organises and launches on the OSIP, ESA will: 
a. establish the evaluation criteria. If not stated otherwise in the Specific 
Conditions, the main evaluation criterion for the Idea phase of 
Campaigns and Channels is novelty. In this case, Idea Submissions 
therefore must clearly demonstrate the novelty in respect to the state of 
the art, providing the necessary description of such novelty. 
b. establish weighting factors for each evaluation criterion. If no weighting 
factors are determined, each evaluation criterion will have equal weight. 
 
(2) Establishment of the Evaluation Panel. The Evaluation Panel shall assist in the 
evaluation of Ideas in an efficient, fast, transparent and impartial manner. The 
proposal for the membership of the Evaluation Panel is the responsibility of the 
CM, who is ex-officio a member of the Evaluation Panel. 
 
The Director of Technology, Engineering and Quality Directorate – or a person 
to whom he has delegated such authority – shall be the Evaluation Panel 
Appointing Authority and shall appoint the Evaluation Panel participants. 
 
ESA ensures that all members of the Evaluation Panel (herein “evaluators”) are 
bound by confidentiality, impartiality and are not in a situation of conflict of 
interest. In case of conflict of interest, evaluators will promptly inform in writing 
the CM. The CM shall analyse the declaration of potential conflict of interest 
and shall take all the necessary measures, including that of excusing the 
evaluator(s) from the Evaluation Panel to ensure that such potential conflict 
does not impair the fairness of the evaluation. 
 
These evaluators shall have a proven competence, experience and insight on 
the subject matter of the Campaign or Channel. Following approval of the 
Evaluation Panel, the OSIP Secretariat provides evaluators read-access to 
Ideas submitted to the relevant Campaigns and Channels. 
 
In all cases, changes in the composition of the Evaluation Panel shall only be 
authorised by the Appointing Authority. 
 
(3) Evaluation by the Evaluation Panel. Evaluators provide their evaluation 
according to the criteria directly in the evaluation system integrated in OSIP. All 
evaluations and comments will be personalised and logged for full traceability.  
 
The Evaluation Panel may, at its sole discretion and as part of its evaluation, 
pose additional questions or requests for clarification to supplement the Idea 
Submission. The Participant must provide the requested documents within the 
given timeline, otherwise it may be considered as excluded. 
 


--- PAGE 7 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
All the decisions made by the Evaluation Panel shall be considered binding and 
final on the Participant, in any and all phases of a Campaign or a Channel. 
V. Registration and  Participation 
5.1. Registration 
 
Before entering Ideas, Users need to register in OSIP. By registering, Users 
accept: 
(1) The General Terms and Conditions of use of the OSIP platform 
(https://bit.ly/OSIPTermsAndConditionsV5 - please always consult the OSIP website for the latest version). 
(2) General conditions of participation and any specific conditions set forth 
by ESA for each Campaign or Channel as they may be published on 
OSIP. 
(3) The ESA Personal Data Protection Framework made public at the URL 
(http://www.esa.int/About_Us/Law_at_ESA/Highlights_of_ESA_rules_and_regulation
s), and the privacy notice and consent forms available on OSIP 
(https://ideas.esa.int/apps/IMT/UploadedFiles/00/f_3f1ace8a368683703963833d40b8ae48/1.1_Consent_f
orm_Privacy_notice__OSIP-v1.2.pdf - please always consult the OSIP website for the latest version ). 
 
5.2. Participation 
 
Users participate to Campaigns or Channels on OSIP by entering or modifying 
an Idea to a Campaign or Channel.  
 
Their participation imply declaration that: 
a. to their knowledge, they have no conflict of interest in connection with 
the Campaign or Channel or any aspect thereof. A conflict of interest 
could arise in particular as a result of economic interests, political or 
national affinity, family, emotional life or any other shared interest 
between the User and any person involved in the organisation of a 
Campaign or Channel or in the evaluation of the Ideas. The Participants 
must inform ESA, without delay, of any situation considered as a conflict 
of interest or which could give rise to a conflict of interest. Depending on 
the situation, such a conflict of interest may lead to the exclusion of the 
Participant from the Campaign or Channel. 
 
b. they did not and do not perform any illegal practices. In particular, 
Participants declare to not have been granted, and shall not grant, have 
not sought and shall not seek, have not attempted and shall not attempt 
to obtain, and have not accepted and shall not accept any advantage, 
financial or in kind, to or from any party whatsoever, where such 
advantage constitutes an illegal practice or involves corruption, either 
directly or indirectly, in as much as it is in connection with a Campaign 
or a Channel. In case of misrepresentation, the Participant shall be 
excluded from the Campaign or Channel. All the terms and conditions of 
the Article X - “Releases” set forth in the General Conditions of Use of 
the OSIP shall also apply mutatis mutandis in relation to the participation 
of the Participant in the Campaigns or Channels. 


--- PAGE 8 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
 
c. any legal person participating to a Campaign or Channel is duly 
represented by the individual that filled in the registration form to 
become User of OSIP. The name and registered office of the legal 
person so represented, as well as any other required information, must 
be mentioned in the registration form as well as on any documents or 
materials submitted any time during the Campaign or Channel.  
By filling in the registration form on OSIP and by submitting an Idea in 
OSIP, the individual representing a legal person represents and 
warrants, without a formal declaration being needed in this respect, that: 
i. he/she has authority to represent the legal entity and will be 
responsible for ensuring that such legal entity will comply with 
these General Conditions of Participation and with any other 
conditions referred to herein; the representative must keep 
available and submit to ESA upon request, the power of 
representation, decision making or control over the legal person 
in the name of which the registration has been done; 
ii. the Participant is an economic operator which is not subject to a 
suspension under ESA Procurement Regulations and, generally, 
is not subject to a decision preventing him from doing business 
with ESA. 
 
d. any individual who fills in the registration form in his/her own name 
(not as representative of a legal person) provides his/her surname 
and given name, his/her domicile as well as any other required 
information and is over the age of majority in their state of jurisdiction as 
of the date of the registration in the Campaign / Channel. 
 
5.3. Applicable Conditions of Participation.  
 
When organising and launching Idea Campaigns and Channels on OSIP, ESA 
will also specify the version of the General Conditions of Participation and of 
the Specific Conditions applicable to the Campaign or the Channel. 
 
5.4. Language.  
 
The language of OSIP, the language of Campaigns and Channels as well as of 
communication between ESA and the Users / Participants shall be English 
unless the Users / Participants have received prior written permission from the 
ESA to submit communication in another language. 
 
5.5. Communication during the Campaign or Channel.  
 
Users / Participants will receive communication via OSIP. When appropriate, 
ESA may also choose to use any other appropriate means of communication. 
 


--- PAGE 9 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
5.6. Proprietary information, data and supporting documents submitted or 
made available by the Users / Participants.  
 
(1) By using the OSIP and conforming to these General Conditions of Participation, 
it is implied that ESA, the members of the Evaluation Panel and any experts 
supporting the foregoing, in addition to any other use authorised elsewhere in 
the General Conditions of Participation or in the OSIP Conditions, are permitted 
to use any such proprietary information, any data and supporting documents 
submitted or made available by the Users / Participants for the purpose of: 
a. the eligibility assessment,  
b. the evaluation of the Idea and the Campaign / Channel procedure,  
the evaluation of the Idea or parts thereof compared to other ESA 
activities (e.g. to check for duplications). 
 
5.7 Exclusion  
 
Any breach of the foregoing may, in addition to other remedies available to 
ESA, lead to the exclusion of the Participant from the Campaign or Channel. 
 
5.8 Modification – termination of OSIP Campaign or Channel 
 
ESA has the right to modify, or terminate any OSIP Campaign or Channel, at 
any time and without any obligation, liability or responsibility, for any reason, in 
particular, if: 
a. the Campaign or Channel is not capable of being run as planned or if its 
requirements, as mentioned on the Website for that particular Campaign 
or Channel, are not fulfilled by the Users; or 
b. the objective pursued by the Campaign or Channel has, in the 
meantime, been achieved by, or for ESA, through modalities other than 
that particular Campaign or Channel; 
c. no application or Idea is submitted or the submitted Idea(s) are not 
compliant with the Conditions of Participation. 
 
5.9 Information – Personal data 
 
In the course of the performance of any Campaign or Channel, the Participant 
may receive, or have access to information identifying individuals, submitted or 
made available by ESA or the Evaluation panel. Such information may be 
processed by the Participant only during and for the purpose of the Campaign 
or Channel only, in compliance with instructions given by ESA on the OSIP for 
that particular Campaign or Channel. In processing such data, the Participant 
shall at all times comply with the obligations set forth herein and the ones 
provided in the data privacy laws and regulations applicable to the Participant 
and shall assist ESA in satisfying its own obligations under the ESA Personal 
Data 
Protection 
Framework 
available 
on 
http://www.esa.int/About_Us/Law_at_ESA/Highlights_of_ESA_rules_and_regulations. 
The 
Participant shall not disclose, make accessible, transfer in any way, sell, assign, 
lease or otherwise exploit any such data (and not allow any of the foregoing on 


--- PAGE 10 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
its behalf), in particular not transfer such data out of the territory of the ESA 
Member States1. 
 
During the term of any Campaign or Channel and after its termination, for the 
whole duration of the protection of the personal data by any applicable laws or 
regulations, the Participant is required to protect the Personal Data against any 
use and any communication not authorised by the disclosing Party or in 
violation with any applicable laws or regulations. 
 
VI. Participant Content (Idea, the Idea Submission and any supporting 
documentation)  
(1) Participants may submit in OSIP certain Ideas, Idea Submissions and any 
supporting documentation (herein “Participant Content”) and the following shall 
apply:  
 
a. In case the content submitted to OSIP by a Participant qualifies as a 
“Participant Content” under these General Conditions of Participation, 
these General Conditions of Participation and any Specific Conditions of 
participation will apply to that content; 
 
b. In case the content submitted by a Participant to OSIP by a Participant 
does not qualify as a “Participant Content” under these General 
Conditions of Participation, the corresponding provisions of the OSIP 
Conditions released by ESA will apply to that User Content. 
 
c. Following an Implementation Path, the rights to use the Participant 
Content will be governed by the relevant contracts or agreement in 
accordance with the applicable ESA rules and regulations. 
 
 
(2) Without prejudice to the possibility foreseen in Article VI, paragraph 4 below, 
by submitting a Participant Content in OSIP, including in its draft status, within 
the framework of a Campaign or Channel: 
 
a. the Participant irrevocably grants to ESA (whether or not ESA is the 
Organiser of the Campaign or Channel) and the Organiser (if different 
from ESA) - without a formal declaration being needed in this respect - 
a free of charge, perpetual, worldwide and transferable right of Use (as 
defined below) and authorise the use (including the exercise of the rights 
mentioned in paragraph a) above) of the Participant Content by any 
Evaluation Panel, expert, on-site contractor, advisor or any Third Party 
acting for ESA, the Participant Content, for the purpose of evaluating the 
Participant Content in the framework of the Campaign and/or Channel; 
for this purpose, the right to “Use” shall include the right to make the 
 
1 As of August 2017 the Member States are Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, 
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, 
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. 


--- PAGE 11 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
Participant Content available publicly (e.g. by displaying the Content on 
the OSIP) only when the relevant option provided in … is activated by 
the Participant. 
 
b. the Participant irrevocably grants to ESA (whether or not ESA is the 
Organiser of the Campaign or Channel) and the Organiser (if different 
from ESA) - without a formal declaration being needed in this respect - 
a free of charge, perpetual, worldwide and transferable right of Use (as 
defined below) the Participant Content selected by ESA in the framework 
of the Campaign and/or Channel following the Idea Evaluation phase, 
for ESA communication purposes, in particular to highlight the OSIP, 
ESA Campaigns or Channels, to promote similar initiatives in the future 
and/or promote the Participant Content. 
 
For the purpose of this Article VI, “Use” means edit, reproduce, store the 
Participant Content on any device, equipment, server, network etc.  (whether 
operated by, or for, ESA) as well as to display, share, process it. 
 
(3) Upon ESA request, the Participant undertakes to: 
a. demonstrate that the Participant actually has intellectual property rights 
in the Participant Content and  
b. to execute any document necessary to confirm the rights granted by 
these General Conditions of Participation.  
 
(4) Notwithstanding the paragraph (2) above, if the Participant withdraws its own 
Participant Content from OSIP by using a functionality in OSIP (if and for as 
long as such functionality is available), the above rights of use shall lapse for 
further use. However, ESA shall be entitled to retain copies for backup and/or 
verification purposes and for the purpose of managing any formality triggered 
by the termination of the access to OSIP and/or participation in the Campaign 
or Channel.  
 
(5) The Participant must not insert any content forbidden under any Specific 
Conditions of participation or under the General Conditions of Use of the OSIP, 
in particular any Third Party element that would infringe upon any Intellectual 
Property or other rights of any person or entity or which the Participant is not 
permitted to deliver with the licenses granted as set forth herein or which would 
trigger application of other terms and conditions. 
 
(6) ESA reserves the right, but disclaims any obligation or responsibility, to control, 
remove, to refuse to post an Participant Content and/or to edit, block or remove 
posted any of such Participant Content, or to undertake the examination 
thereof. The User remains responsible of its Participant Content regardless of 
the examination or assessment made by ESA. 
 
In particular, any such Participant Content submitted by the Users in OSIP must 
not: 
 
a. contain trademarks, logos or trade names owned by others, or 
advertise or promote any brand or product of any kind, without 


--- PAGE 12 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
permission, or contain any personal identification, such as license 
plate numbers, personal names, e-mail addresses or street 
addresses; 
 
b. contain copyrighted materials owned by others (including 
photographs, sculptures, paintings and other works of art or images 
published on or in websites, television, movies or other media) 
without permission; 
 
c. contain materials embodying the names, likenesses, photographs, 
or other indicia identifying any person, living or dead, without 
permission; communicate messages or images inconsistent with 
the positive images and/or goodwill to which ESA wishes to 
associate; 
 
d. be violent or derogatory of any ethnic, racial, gender, religious, 
professional or age group, profane or pornographic; be obscene or 
offensive, endorse any form of hate or hate group; defame, 
misrepresent or contain disparaging remarks about ESA, or its 
activities or team, or other people, products or companies; 
 
e. contain any materially dangerous activity; promote alcohol, illegal 
drugs, tobacco, firearms/weapons (or the use of any of the 
foregoing), any activities that may appear unsafe or dangerous, or 
any particular political agenda or message; and 
 
f. depict, and cannot itself, be in violation of any law. 
 
(7)  By submitting a Participant Content in OSIP, including in its draft status, within 
the framework of a Campaign or Channel, the Participant represents and 
warrants to ESA and Organiser, without a formal declaration being needed in 
this respect, that  
a. it does not infringe upon any Intellectual Property or other rights of any 
person or entity; 
b. the Participant is the owner of potential intellectual property rights (if any) 
in and to the Participant Content or, at least, that the Participant obtained 
all the necessary rights, licenses, approvals, authorisations and releases 
to submit them under these Conditions of Participation, the Specific 
Conditions and the OSIP Conditions and to grant the rights of use 
pursuant to the above-mentioned Conditions. 
 
The above-mentioned rights, licenses, approvals, authorisations and 
releases must have been obtained by the Users, prior to the submission 
of Participant Content, from any right holder, in particular from: 
(i) 
any individual whose name, likeness or voice is used in any 
such Participant Content; 
(ii) 
any natural or legal person who may have contributed or 
participated in any way in the creation of the submitted 
Participant Content; and/or 


--- PAGE 13 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
(iii) 
any natural or legal person who may own or control any 
elements used in the Participant Content which are not 
owned or controlled by the Participant. 
 
The above-mentioned rights, licenses, approvals, authorisations and 
releases must have been obtained by the Participants without placing 
ESA or the Organiser under any obligation. 
 
 
(8) The Participant will defend, indemnify and hold harmless ESA, from any claims 
related to the Participant Content provided in a Campaign or Channel. All 
obligations and warranties set forth herein or (for User Content) in the General 
Conditions of Use of the OSIP and in the Specific Conditions (if any) will survive 
the termination of the Participant’s participation in the Campaign or Channel, 
for the duration of the rights granted to ESA. 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 14 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
VII. Procedure conditions 
Campaign and Channel overview pages provide information regarding the Campaign 
or Channel specific procedure conditions and/or refers to other sources of information 
made available by ESA and related to the Implementation Path(s). 
A. Idea Phase 
Entering Ideas  
 
(1) The Idea phase starts with the entering of a draft description of an Idea into 
OSIP. 
a. Users enter an Idea into a Campaign or Channel hosted on the OSIP 
platform by providing at the minimum the following: 
- 
A short meaningful title, and optionally an illustration of the Idea 
- 
A concise description of the Idea (max 2000 characters) 
b. By entering an Idea, the Participant accepts that: 
- 
The Idea must be new, in terms of content, and original in its 
presentation as Idea Submission; the Idea must also comply with 
other conditions which may result from the Specific Conditions of 
participation; in particular the Idea must not have been previously 
published, in whole or in part, and must not have won previous 
awards, prizes etc.; 
c. Depending on the specific requirements for the Campaign or the 
Channel, Users can be asked to provide further optional or mandatory 
information.  
Submission of Ideas and maturation 
(2) Once Participants are satisfied with the description of their Idea, they submit 
the Idea. The Participant agrees that submissions of Ideas imply that: 
a. Ideas become visible to ESA and evaluators in OSIP; 
b. Ideas may be made public as required by the relevant ESA rules and 
regulations; Ideas may be processed by ESA; 
c. Ideas shall be used as set forth in Article VII (4) of these Conditions or 
as required by the relevant ESA rules and regulations;  
d. Other Users can comment on visible Ideas or give ratings given to Ideas 
proposed by other Users or insert any other comment onto the OSIP to 
the extent permitted by the functionalities of OSIP.  
e. Following the receipt of an Idea and based on the information provided, 
the Idea would be matured, improved and finalised by the Participants. 
This might be done either spontaneously by the Participant, upon 
invitation by ESA or pursuant to an open dialogue about the Idea among 
Users (e.g. during an optional community/maturation period). ESA may 
require the Participant to work in cooperation with another Participant to 
the Campaign or Channel, in order for them to merge their respective 
Ideas and submit in OSIP a combined Idea under the responsibility of 
one of the two Participants. In any case when a Participant will submit a 
matured, improved and finalised Idea, in particular after embedding or 
otherwise capturing the contributions of other authors, the Participant 


--- PAGE 15 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
must ensure compliance with the terms of the Article VII (4) of these 
General Conditions of Participation, and, in particular, ensure that 
Participants obtained all the necessary rights, licenses, approvals 
authorisation and releases to submit the new, mature, improved and/or 
finalised Idea and grant the rights provided for in the said Article VII (4) 
of these General Conditions of Participation. 
Evaluation of Ideas 
(3) Following the submission deadline of Campaigns (and optionally an additional 
community/maturation period) and at intervals predetermined for Channels, 
ESA will evaluate the Ideas according to the eligibility and evaluation criteria. 
At this stage, Ideas can no longer be modified by the Participant. 
 
(4) The CM will 
a. Assess the eligibility of the Idea (according to pre-established and 
announced eligibility criteria, e.g. space context, general feasibility, 
scope); 
b. Archive non-eligible Ideas and inform the authors via OSIP about the 
non-eligibility of their Idea; 
c. Ensure that each eligible Idea is evaluated; 
d. Route the eligible Ideas to a pre-established Evaluation Panel and 
informing them about the evaluation criteria. 
 
(5) Evaluators will 
a. Assess each eligible Idea assigned to them individually according to pre-
established and announced evaluation criteria. For OSIP calls under the 
Discovery element of the Basic Activities, such criteria will include at 
least the novelty of the Idea. 
 
(6) The CM will: 
a. Extend or close the Idea evaluation phase. 
b. Inform the Participants of the outcome of the evaluation via OSIP. 
c. Select the highest ranked Ideas up to a cut-off level.  
d. Inform the Participants of the selected best ranked Ideas. 
(7) The OSIP Secretary will  
a. Archive for at least 1 year the non-eligible and non-selected Ideas for 
the purpose of keeping a record, for referencing, for statistical analysis 
and for checking overlaps and duplications with other ideas. 
 
(8) The marking of Ideas evaluated by more than one evaluator will be averaged. 
To allow for a fast process, evaluators will use the OSIP evaluation system 
online, not requiring physical meetings nor consensus among them. In case of 
any significant difference of marking, the CM may guide a discussion with the 
evaluators to reduce these differences. 
 
(9) The evaluation will result in a sorted list of Ideas with their titles, descriptions 
and evaluation selected for the proposal phase. Ideas not retained for the 
proposal phase will be archived in the system at their original confidentiality 
level for at least 1 year.  
 


--- PAGE 16 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
(10) 
In case of open Channels, at regular interval, the Channel Manager and 
OSIP secretary will transfer the best evaluated Ideas together with the 
evaluators’ comments and recommendation on the implementation path to be 
followed.  
 
(11) 
Following the selection of an Idea and the appropriate Implementation 
Path, Participants are informed via OSIP of the outcome of such process. 
 
(12) 
For selected Implementation Paths (e.g. procurement, including co-
funded Research or EISI), Participants may be invited to complement their idea, 
via OSIP, with additional information. 
 
(13) 
To enable a fast process, ESA will only provide a concise written 
feedback on OSIP (no oral debriefing, no feedback by email). 
 
(14) 
The Idea submission, maturation, evaluation and selection Phase, 
making use of the OSIP platform, is concluded at this point. 
 
B. Implementation Path  
(1) One or more steps of the selected Implementation Path may be conducted via 
OSIP and, in any case: 
 
i. 
the Participant shall be given visibility on the steps to be accomplished 
via OSIP and the ones to be accomplished out of OSIP; 
ii. 
the Participant shall be provided with the necessary templates, 
instructions and/or guidelines; and 
 
iii. 
when necessary, the Participant shall be directed to another ESA 
operated platform or system more appropriate for the steps to be 
conducted out of OSIP; 
 
iv. 
OSIP shall be used only to the extent the compliance with the ESA rules 
and regulations applicable to the selected Implementation Path is 
ensured throughout the process. 
 
(2) For illustration purposes, some Implementation Paths, like “co-funded 
research” or “EISI” may be implemented via OSIP from the invitation to submit 
ideas to the submitted proposal evaluation. Contractual matters in case of 
proposal selection may be dealt outside of the OSIP upon ESA’s decision. 
 
i. 
The Participant is, following idea selection, invited to submit a proposal 
on OSIP in a dedicated Channel. 
 
ii. 
Proposals will be based on selected ideas from the idea phase and 
require adding further information specific to the implementation path. 
 


--- PAGE 17 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
iii. 
Proposals will be reviewed by an evaluation board appointed as per the 
applicable ESA rules and regulations. 
 
iv. 
A standard contract / agreement applies for all activities. The draft 
contract / agreement shall be accessible via the relevant proposal 
Channel or the other sources referred therein by ESA. 
 
 
C. Implementation Paths where the proposal phase is implemented via 
ESA’s standard procurement process phase (for information only) 
 
i. 
Subject to compliance with ESA Procurement Regulations and with 
Specific Conditions which might be released by ESA in this respect, this 
section C is only meant to provide general and not binding information 
on the basic aspects of the individual Implementation Path specific to 
activities within the Discovery Element of ESA’s Basic Activities and 
other ESA programmes using OSIP for this purpose. 
 
ii. 
For all Implementation Paths except those covered under the previous 
phase, the appropriate Procurement processes will be triggered at this 
point under the Agency’s applicable rules and regulations. Within this 
framework, Participants may be invited to transform their Idea into a 
proposal in response to the appropriate solicitation formula (Invitation to 
submit a full proposal, Request for Proposal, Invitation to Tender, etc.). 
In most cases, proposal templates, specifically tailored for the selected 
Implementation Path, will be provided as part of the solicitation package.  
Preparation of Proposal 
(1) The Participant may be required to submit a proposal within a predetermined 
and announced period following the announcement of the Idea selection, and 
to comply with the requirements linked to the Implementation Path.  
 
(2) The proposal will include the selected Idea from the Idea phase and additionally 
information specific to the requirements from the selected Implementation Path. 
Evaluation of Proposal 
(1) Proposals will be subject to a full evaluation following the rules and principles 
laid out in the ESA Procurement Regulations or, as applicable, the legal 
framework applicable to the other available Implementation Paths such as the 
one applicable to “EISI” (for as long as they are in force). 
 
(2) To appropriately cater for the need for innovative activities, ESA reserves the 
right to carry out the evaluation in two steps. 
- 
In the first step, proposals are evaluated against a single Evaluation 
Criterion (weighting factor 100%) focusing on the innovativeness of the 
proposal. 
- 
Proposals not reaching a mark of 60 (Good) for innovation are excluded 
from further evaluation, thus from the second step. 
- 
Authors whose proposal is excluded at this stage will receive a concise 
message informing of the exclusion. 


--- PAGE 18 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
- 
In the second step, the proposals qualifying for further evaluation are 
evaluated under the remaining evaluation criteria (weighting factors adding 
up to 100% in case of competitive tendering), ranked according to the total 
weighted scores (competitive tendering) and recommended for contract 
award according to the standard procedure.  
- 
Endorsement of the Tender Evaluation Board recommendations as per 
standard procedure. 
- 
Contract negotiation and award. 
VIII. 
Compliance with Laws and Regulations 
(1) All Participants must observe all local, regional, national, and international laws, 
orders, directives, ordinances, treaties, rules and regulations which may apply 
to Participants in connection with all aspects of the participation to Campaigns 
or Channels. Participants are solely responsible for acquiring the appropriate 
licenses, waivers, or permits from the applicable regulatory bodies or other 
applicable third parties. ESA shall in no way be responsible for providing the 
Participants any advice or counsel, legal or otherwise, with regard thereto. 
IX. Applicable Law and Settlement of Disputes 
(1) Except for personal data matters or incidents for which ESA Framework on 
Personal Data Protection shall apply, and for which ESA Supervisory Authority 
shall have jurisdiction:  
a. Without prejudice to the applicability of ESA Convention on privileges of 
ESA, this Agreement shall be governed by and shall be interpreted in 
accordance with the Law of France. 
 
b. All disputes between the Parties in connection with or arising out of the 
existence, validity, construction, performance and termination of this 
Agreement (or any terms thereof) which the Parties cannot resolve 
within 30 days from the date of a written notice from one Party to the 
other Party to notify the existing dispute, shall be finally settled under the 
Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce by 3 
arbitrators appointed in accordance with the said rules. The cost of 
arbitration, including the fees and expenses of the arbitrators, shall be 
shared equally by the Parties unless the award otherwise provides. Each 
Party shall bear its own representation fees and costs associated with 
the arbitration. The arbitration proceedings shall be conducted in the 
English language in Paris (France) and the arbitration award shall be 
final and binding upon the Parties, their successors and assigns which 
shall comply in good faith with such decision. 
X. Limitation of ESA liability 
(1) ESA will be liable towards the Participants only for losses resulting from 
procedural breaches of the Campaign or Channel, in which case ESA shall be 
liable only in the event of wilful intent (including fraudulent intent) and gross 


--- PAGE 19 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
negligence on the part of ESA, provided that the claim is formulated by the User 
within three (3) months of the date when the first loss occurred. Any claims 
beyond the above shall be excluded. 
XI. Processing of Personal Data 
(1) Personal Data is processed according to the ESA Personal Data Protection 
Framework 
a. The European Space Agency collects and/or processes personal data 
concerning various individuals, in particular – but not only – ESA Staff 
members and personnel engaged by ESA contractors and their 
subcontractors. 
 
(2) The European Space Agency is subject to a Personal Data Protection 
framework composed of the following elements:  
a. The Principles of Personal Data Protection, as adopted by ESA Council 
Resolution (ESA/C/CCLXVIII/Res.2 (Final)) adopted on 13 June 2017 
b. The Rules of Procedure for the Data Protection Supervisory Authority, 
as adopted by ESA Council Resolution (ESA/C/CCLXVIII/Res.2 (Final)) 
adopted on 13 June 2017 
The Policy on Personal Data Protection adopted by Director General of 
ESA on 5 February 2018 and effective on 1 March 2018 
 
(3) ESA Framework on Personal Data Protection:  
o 
http://www.esa.int/About_Us/Law_at_ESA/Highlights_of_ESA_rules_and_regulations 
The processing is notified under a registered DPNR 
 


--- PAGE 20 ---
ESA UNCLASSIFIED – For ESA Official Use Only    
 
 
ESA OSIP – General Conditions of Participation 
Version 3 – 12.01.2022 
Reference No: ESA-TECSF-TOR-2022-000109 
 
Indicative Standard Process 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Entered idea 
draft / final 
Comments by users 
/ ESA (optional) 
In case publicly visible (e.g. to 
search for partners) 
Assessment of eligibility of ideas by ESA  
Evaluation of ideas by ESA-appointed evaluation 
panel (standard evaluation at least on novelty level) 
2nd Phase on OSIP 
Written feedback via 
OSIP 
Written feedback via 
OSIP 
Campaigns: 
-
After submission deadline 
Channels: 
-
At regular intervals (e.g. every month) 
Best ranked ideas 
1.
Idea title 
2.
Idea title 
3.
Idea title 
… 
10. Idea title 
Channelling by ESA into implementation scheme 
2nd Phase on esastar  
Other 
Proposal evaluation/ 
TEB 
TEB 
Progr. specific 
selection 
Req. to submit full 
proposal 
Req. to submit full 
proposal  
Depending on impl. 
Progr, 
-
Selecting best ranked prop. for implementation at regular intervals 
-
Other ideas in channels remain for next round in the pool – before being archived 
proposal process  
Section VII B 
idea process 
 Section VII A 
Submitted idea 
draft / final 
Negotiation & Contract 
Negotiation & Contract 
